# Ideation

This markdown file will track some initial ideation for the project.

## Vision

### What this project will do

1. Create a tool for searching scripture using natural language queries.
2. Provide links and high-level information about scripture sources.

### What this project _won't_ do

1. AI will not be used to interpret or teach scripture. The goal is to help users find
   scripture that is relevant to their questions and interests.
2. Scripture will not be collected (e.g. web scraped) without permission unless it is
   already in the public domain.

## Potential Features

### Web scraped scripture

- Scripture sources
    - Theravada Pali Canon - particularly https://www.accesstoinsight.org/index-sutta.html and https://www.dhammatalks.org/suttas/
    - Other scripture
        - Sutras
        - Bible
- Document data
    - Metadata
        - Religion (e.g. Buddhism, Christianity)
        - Subgroup (e.g. Theravada, Mahayana)
        - Source (e.g. Dhammapada, Genesis)
            - URL to read full source
        - Translation source (e.g. Thanissaro, NIV)
    - Content
        - Full text
        - Commentary

### Document Search

- LLM-based
    - Embed documents using a language model
    - Upload documents to a vector database
    - Use a language model to embed query and search the vector database for similar
      documents
    - Output most similar documents for user

### UI

- Source selection
    - Mix and match sources - the user can choose which sources to search from.
- Search interface - a text-based interface for searching scripture.
    - _Single text search_ - Single query which gets matched to scripture.
    - _Chat-based search_ - LLM-based. User can chat with the LLM to try to refine what
      the user is looking for, but the LLM never tries to "be the teacher". It simply
      tries to help the user find what they are looking for.
